README.md, before:

<div align="center">

<img src="assets/images/logos/logo_dark.svg" width="200px" alt="vLLora Logo">

#### Lightweight, Real-time Debugging for AI Agents

Debug your Agents in Real Time. Trace, analyze, and optimize instantly. Seamless with LangChain, Google ADK, OpenAI, and all major frameworks.

**[Documentation](https://vllora.dev/docs)** | **[Issues](https://github.com/vllora/vllora/issues)** 


</div>


## Quick Start

First, install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh) if you haven't already, then:

```bash
brew tap vllora/vllora
brew install vllora
```


### Start the vLLora:

```bash
vllora
```

> The server will start on `http://localhost:9090` and the UI will be available at `http://localhost:9091`. 

vLLora uses OpenAI-compatible chat completions API, so when your AI agents make calls through vLLora, it automatically collects traces and debugging information for every 
interaction.

<div align="center">

![vLLora Demo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vllora/vllora/main/assets/gifs/traces.gif)


</div>

### Test Send your First Request

1. **Configure API Keys**: Visit `http://localhost:9091` to configure your AI provider API keys through the UI
2. **Make a request** to see debugging in action:

```bash
curl http://localhost:9090/v1/chat/completions \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "model": "gpt-4o-mini",
    "messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "What is the capital of France?"}]
  }'
```

### Rust streaming example (OpenAI-compatible)

In `llm/examples/openai_stream_basic/src/main.rs` you can find a minimal Rust example that:

- **Builds an OpenAI-style request** using `CreateChatCompletionRequestArgs` with:
  - `model("gpt-4.1-mini")`
  - a **system message**: `"You are a helpful assistant."`
  - a **user message**: `"Stream numbers 1 to 20 in separate lines."`
- **Constructs a `VlloraLLMClient`** and configures credentials via:

```bash
export VLLORA_OPENAI_API_KEY="your-openai-compatible-key"
```

Inside the example, the client is created roughly as:

```rust
let client = VlloraLLMClient::new()
    .with_credentials(Credentials::ApiKey(ApiKeyCredentials {
        api_key: std::env::var("VLLORA_OPENAI_API_KEY")
            .expect("VLLORA_OPENAI_API_KEY must be set")
    }));
```

Then it **streams the completion** using the original OpenAI-style request:

```rust
let mut stream = client
    .completions()
    .create_stream(openai_req)
    .await?;

while let Some(chunk) = stream.next().await {
    let chunk = chunk?;
    for choice in chunk.choices {
        if let Some(delta) = choice.delta.content {
            print!("{delta}");
        }
    }
}
```

This will print the streamed response chunks (in this example, numbers 1 to 20) to stdout as they arrive.

## Features

**Real-time Tracing** - Monitor AI agent interactions as they happen with live observability of calls, tool interactions, and agent workflow. See exactly what your agents are doing in real-time.

![Real-time Tracing](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vllora/vllora/main/assets/images/traces-vllora.png)

**MCP Support** - Full support for Model Context Protocol (MCP) servers, enabling seamless integration with external tools by connecting with MCP Servers through HTTP and SSE

![MCP Configuration](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vllora/vllora/main/assets/images/mcp-config.png)

## Development

To get started with development:

1. **Clone the repository**:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/vllora/vllora.git
cd vLLora
cargo build --release
```

The binary will be available at `target/release/vlora`.

2. **Run tests**:
```bash
cargo test
```

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please check out our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines on:

- How to submit issues
- How to submit pull requests
- Code style conventions
- Development workflow
- Testing requirements

Have a bug report or feature request? Check out our [Issues](https://github.com/vllora/vllora/issues) to see what's being worked on or to report a new issue.

## Roadmap

Check out our [Roadmap](https://vllora.dev/docs/roadmap) to see what's coming next!

## License

vLLora is [fair-code](https://faircode.io/) distributed under the [Elastic License 2.0 (ELv2)](https://github.com/vllora/vllora/blob/main/LICENSE.md).

The inner package `llm` is distributed under the [Apache License 2.0](llm/LICENSE-APACHE).

- **Source Available**: Always visible vLLora source code
- **Self-Hostable**: Deploy vLLora anywhere you need
- **Extensible**: Add your own providers, tools, MCP servers, and custom functionality

For Enterprise License, contact us at [hello@vllora.dev](mailto:hello@vllora.dev).

Additional information about the license model can be found in the docs.

Commit message:

feat: Add distri as component

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

<img src="assets/images/logos/logo_dark.svg" width="200px" alt="vLLora Logo">

#### Lightweight, Real-time Debugging for AI Agents

Debug your Agents in Real Time. Trace, analyze, and optimize instantly. Seamless with LangChain, Google ADK, OpenAI, and all major frameworks.

**[Documentation](https://vllora.dev/docs)** | **[Issues](https://github.com/vllora/vllora/issues)** 


</div>


## Quick Start

First, install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh) if you haven't already, then:

```bash
brew tap vllora/vllora
brew install vllora
```


### Start the vLLora:

```bash
vllora
```

> The server will start on `http://localhost:9090` and the UI will be available at `http://localhost:9091`. 

vLLora uses OpenAI-compatible chat completions API, so when your AI agents make calls through vLLora, it automatically collects traces and debugging information for every 
interaction.

<div align="center">

![vLLora Demo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vllora/vllora/main/assets/gifs/traces.gif)


</div>

### Test Send your First Request

1. **Configure API Keys**: Visit `http://localhost:9091` to configure your AI provider API keys through the UI
2. **Make a request** to see debugging in action:

```bash
curl http://localhost:9090/v1/chat/completions \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "model": "gpt-4o-mini",
    "messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "What is the capital of France?"}]
  }'
```

### Rust streaming example (OpenAI-compatible)

In `llm/examples/openai_stream_basic/src/main.rs` you can find a minimal Rust example that:

- **Builds an OpenAI-style request** using `CreateChatCompletionRequestArgs` with:
  - `model("gpt-4.1-mini")`
  - a **system message**: `"You are a helpful assistant."`
  - a **user message**: `"Stream numbers 1 to 20 in separate lines."`
- **Constructs a `VlloraLLMClient`** and configures credentials via:

```bash
export VLLORA_OPENAI_API_KEY="your-openai-compatible-key"
```

Inside the example, the client is created roughly as:

```rust
let client = VlloraLLMClient::new()
    .with_credentials(Credentials::ApiKey(ApiKeyCredentials {
        api_key: std::env::var("VLLORA_OPENAI_API_KEY")
            .expect("VLLORA_OPENAI_API_KEY must be set")
    }));
```

Then it **streams the completion** using the original OpenAI-style request:

```rust
let mut stream = client
    .completions()
    .create_stream(openai_req)
    .await?;

while let Some(chunk) = stream.next().await {
    let chunk = chunk?;
    for choice in chunk.choices {
        if let Some(delta) = choice.delta.content {
            print!("{delta}");
        }
    }
}
```

This will print the streamed response chunks (in this example, numbers 1 to 20) to stdout as they arrive.

## Features

**Real-time Tracing** - Monitor AI agent interactions as they happen with live observability of calls, tool interactions, and agent workflow. See exactly what your agents are doing in real-time.

![Real-time Tracing](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vllora/vllora/main/assets/images/traces-vllora.png)

**MCP Support** - Full support for Model Context Protocol (MCP) servers, enabling seamless integration with external tools by connecting with MCP Servers through HTTP and SSE

![MCP Configuration](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vllora/vllora/main/assets/images/mcp-config.png)

## Development

To get started with development:

1. **Clone the repository**:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/vllora/vllora.git
cd vLLora
cargo build --release
```

The binary will be available at `target/release/vlora`.

2. **Run tests**:
```bash
cargo test
```

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please check out our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines on:

- How to submit issues
- How to submit pull requests
- Code style conventions
- Development workflow
- Testing requirements

Have a bug report or feature request? Check out our [Issues](https://github.com/vllora/vllora/issues) to see what's being worked on or to report a new issue.

## Roadmap

Check out our [Roadmap](https://vllora.dev/docs/roadmap) to see what's coming next!

## License

vLLora is [fair-code](https://faircode.io/) distributed under the [Elastic License 2.0 (ELv2)](https://github.com/vllora/vllora/blob/main/LICENSE.md).

The inner package `llm` is distributed under the [Apache License 2.0](llm/LICENSE-APACHE).

vLLora includes [Distri](https://distri.dev/) as an optional component for AI agent functionality. Distri is distributed under the [Elastic License 2.0 (ELv2)](https://github.com/distrihub/distri/blob/main/LICENSE) and is downloaded separately at runtime. Distri is a separate project maintained by [DistriHub](https://github.com/distrihub).

- **Source Available**: Always visible vLLora source code
- **Self-Hostable**: Deploy vLLora anywhere you need
- **Extensible**: Add your own providers, tools, MCP servers, and custom functionality

For Enterprise License, contact us at [hello@vllora.dev](mailto:hello@vllora.dev).

Additional information about the license model can be found in the docs.
