UDF.md, before:

# LangDB UDFs for ClickHouse

`langdb_udf` adds support for AI operations directly within ClickHouse through User Defined Functions (UDFs). This enables running AI completions and embeddings natively in your SQL queries.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/langdb/ai-gateway/main/assets/images/udf.gif" width="900px" alt="Calling LangDB APIs directly in Clickhouse">

## Features
- `ai_completions`: Generate AI completions from various models
- `ai_embed`: Create embeddings from text

## Why Use LangDB UDFs in ClickHouse?

LangDB UDFs are particularly powerful for running LLM-based evaluations and analysis directly within your ClickHouse environment:

- **Native Integration**: Run AI operations directly in SQL queries without data movement
- **Batch Processing**: Efficiently process and analyze large datasets with LLMs
- **Real-time Analysis**: Perform content moderation, sentiment analysis, and other AI tasks as part of your data pipeline
- **Model Comparison**: Easily compare results across different LLM models in a single query
- **Scalability**: Leverage ClickHouse's distributed architecture for parallel AI processing

## Prerequisites

1. Get your LangDB credentials:
   - Sign up at [LangDB](https://langdb.ai)
   - Get your `LANGDB_PROJECT_ID` and `LANGDB_API_KEY`

2. Set up environment variables:
```bash
export LANGDB_PROJECT_ID=your_project_id
export LANGDB_API_KEY=your_api_key
```

## Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone git@github.com:langdb/ai-gateway.git
cd ai-gateway

# Create directory for ClickHouse user scripts
mkdir -p docker/clickhouse/user_scripts

# Download the latest UDF
curl -sL https://github.com/langdb/ai-gateway/releases/download/0.1.0/langdb_udf \
  -o docker/clickhouse/user_scripts/langdb_udf

# Start ClickHouse with LangDB UDF
docker compose up -d
```

## Usage Examples

### Using `ai_completions`

Basic example with system prompt:
```sql
-- Set system prompt
SET param_system_prompt = 'You are a helpful assistant. You will return only a single value sentiment score between 1 and 5 for every input and nothing else.';

-- Run completion
SELECT ai_completions
(
  '{"model": "gpt-4o-mini", "max_tokens": 1000}',
  {system_prompt:String}, 
  'You are very rude'
) as score
```

### Advanced Parameters

You can specify additional parameters like `thread_id` and `run_id`:

```sql
-- Set parameters
SET param_system_prompt = 'You are a helpful assistant. You will return only a single value sentiment score between 1 and 5 for every input and nothing else.';

-- Generate UUIDs for tracking
SELECT generateUUIDv4();
SET param_thread_id = '06b66882-e42e-4b17-ba93-4b5260a10ad8';
SET param_run_id = '06b66882-e42e-4b17-ba93-4b5260a10ad8';

-- Run completion with parameters
SELECT ai_completions
(
  '{"model": "gpt-4o-mini", "max_tokens": 1000, "thread_id": "' || {thread_id:String} || '", "run_id": "' || {run_id:String} || '"}',
  {system_prompt:String}, 
  'You are very rude'
) as score
```

### Using `ai_embed`

Generate embeddings from text:
```sql
SELECT ai_embed('{"model":"text-embedding-3-small"}', 'Life is beautiful') as embed_text
```

## Real-world Example: Content Moderation

This example shows how to score HackerNews comments for harmful content:

```sql
-- Create and populate table
CREATE TABLE hackernews
ENGINE = MergeTree
ORDER BY id
SETTINGS allow_nullable_key = 1 EMPTY AS
SELECT *
FROM url('https://datasets-documentation.s3.eu-west-3.amazonaws.com/hackernews/hacknernews.parquet', 'Parquet');

-- Insert sample data
INSERT INTO hackernews SELECT *
FROM url('https://datasets-documentation.s3.eu-west-3.amazonaws.com/hackernews/hacknernews.parquet', 'Parquet') 
LIMIT 100;

-- Set up parameters
SET param_system_prompt = 'You are a helpful assistant. You will return only a single value score between 1 and 5 for every input and nothing else based on malicious behavior. 0 being ok, 5 being the most harmful';
SET param_thread_id = '06b66882-e42e-4b17-ba93-4b5260a10ad8';
SET param_run_id = '06b66882-e42e-4b17-ba93-4b5260a10ad8';

-- Score content using multiple models
WITH tbl as ( select * from hackernews limit 5)
SELECT  
    id, 
    left(text, 100) as text_clip, 
    ai_completions
    (
      '{"model": "gpt-4o-mini", "max_tokens": 1000, "thread_id": "' || {thread_id:String} || '", "run_id": "' || {run_id:String} || '"}',
      {system_prompt:String}, text
    ) as gpt_4o_mini_score,
    ai_completions
    (
      '{"model": "gemini/gemini-1.5-flash-8b", "max_tokens": 1000, "thread_id": "' || {thread_id:String} || '", "run_id": "' || {run_id:String} || '"}',
      {system_prompt:String}, 
      text
    ) as gemini_15flash_score
FROM tbl 
FORMAT PrettySpace
```

```bash
id   text_clip                                            gpt_4o_mini_score   gemini_15flash_score
1.  7544833   This is a project for people who like to read and    2                   2
                    
2.  7544834   I appreciate your efforts to set the facts straigh   2                   2
                    
3.  7544835   Here in Western Europe, earning $100,000 per year    1                   2
                    
4.  7544836   Haha oh man so true. This is why I&#x27;ve found i   3                   2
                    
5.  7544837   The thing is it&#x27;s gotten more attention from    1                   2
                    
```

## References

- [ClickHouse UDF Documentation](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/udf)
- [LangDB API Parameters Reference](https://github.com/langdb/ai-gateway/blob/main/udfs/src/types.rs)
- [Docker Compose Configuration](https://github.com/langdb/ai-gateway/blob/main/docker-compose.yml)

Commit message:

Disable file logging by default (#41)

UDF.md, after:

# LangDB UDFs for ClickHouse

`langdb_udf` adds support for AI operations directly within ClickHouse through User Defined Functions (UDFs). This enables running AI completions and embeddings natively in your SQL queries.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/langdb/ai-gateway/main/assets/images/udf.gif" width="900px" alt="Calling LangDB APIs directly in Clickhouse">

## Features
- `ai_completions`: Generate AI completions from various models
- `ai_embed`: Create embeddings from text

## Why Use LangDB UDFs in ClickHouse?

LangDB UDFs are particularly powerful for running LLM-based evaluations and analysis directly within your ClickHouse environment:

- **Native Integration**: Run AI operations directly in SQL queries without data movement
- **Batch Processing**: Efficiently process and analyze large datasets with LLMs
- **Real-time Analysis**: Perform content moderation, sentiment analysis, and other AI tasks as part of your data pipeline
- **Model Comparison**: Easily compare results across different LLM models in a single query
- **Scalability**: Leverage ClickHouse's distributed architecture for parallel AI processing

## Prerequisites

1. Get your LangDB credentials:
   - Sign up at [LangDB](https://langdb.ai)
   - Get your `LANGDB_PROJECT_ID` and `LANGDB_API_KEY`

2. Set up environment variables:
```bash
export LANGDB_PROJECT_ID=your_project_id
export LANGDB_API_KEY=your_api_key
```

3. Enable debug log if neccessary. By default, log is sent to stderr. If `UDF_FILE_LOGGING` is set, log is sent to `./logs` folder. 

```bash
export RUST_LOG="debug"
export UDF_FILE_LOGGING=true
```

## Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone git@github.com:langdb/ai-gateway.git
cd ai-gateway

# Create directory for ClickHouse user scripts
mkdir -p docker/clickhouse/user_scripts

# Download the latest UDF
curl -sL https://github.com/langdb/ai-gateway/releases/download/0.1.0/langdb_udf \
  -o docker/clickhouse/user_scripts/langdb_udf

# Start ClickHouse with LangDB UDF
docker compose up -d
```

## Usage Examples

### Using `ai_completions`

Basic example with system prompt:
```sql
-- Set system prompt
SET param_system_prompt = 'You are a helpful assistant. You will return only a single value sentiment score between 1 and 5 for every input and nothing else.';

-- Run completion
SELECT ai_completions
(
  '{"model": "gpt-4o-mini", "max_tokens": 1000}',
  {system_prompt:String}, 
  'You are very rude'
) as score
```

### Advanced Parameters

You can specify additional parameters like `thread_id` and `run_id`:

```sql
-- Set parameters
SET param_system_prompt = 'You are a helpful assistant. You will return only a single value sentiment score between 1 and 5 for every input and nothing else.';

-- Generate UUIDs for tracking
SELECT generateUUIDv4();
SET param_thread_id = '06b66882-e42e-4b17-ba93-4b5260a10ad8';
SET param_run_id = '06b66882-e42e-4b17-ba93-4b5260a10ad8';

-- Run completion with parameters
SELECT ai_completions
(
  '{"model": "gpt-4o-mini", "max_tokens": 1000, "thread_id": "' || {thread_id:String} || '", "run_id": "' || {run_id:String} || '"}',
  {system_prompt:String}, 
  'You are very rude'
) as score
```

### Using `ai_embed`

Generate embeddings from text:
```sql
SELECT ai_embed('{"model":"text-embedding-3-small"}', 'Life is beautiful') as embed_text
```

## Real-world Example: Content Moderation

This example shows how to score HackerNews comments for harmful content:

```sql
-- Create and populate table
CREATE TABLE hackernews
ENGINE = MergeTree
ORDER BY id
SETTINGS allow_nullable_key = 1 EMPTY AS
SELECT *
FROM url('https://datasets-documentation.s3.eu-west-3.amazonaws.com/hackernews/hacknernews.parquet', 'Parquet');

-- Insert sample data
INSERT INTO hackernews SELECT *
FROM url('https://datasets-documentation.s3.eu-west-3.amazonaws.com/hackernews/hacknernews.parquet', 'Parquet') 
LIMIT 100;

-- Set up parameters
SET param_system_prompt = 'You are a helpful assistant. You will return only a single value score between 1 and 5 for every input and nothing else based on malicious behavior. 0 being ok, 5 being the most harmful';
SET param_thread_id = '06b66882-e42e-4b17-ba93-4b5260a10ad8';
SET param_run_id = '06b66882-e42e-4b17-ba93-4b5260a10ad8';

-- Score content using multiple models
WITH tbl as ( select * from hackernews limit 5)
SELECT  
    id, 
    left(text, 100) as text_clip, 
    ai_completions
    (
      '{"model": "gpt-4o-mini", "max_tokens": 1000, "thread_id": "' || {thread_id:String} || '", "run_id": "' || {run_id:String} || '"}',
      {system_prompt:String}, text
    ) as gpt_4o_mini_score,
    ai_completions
    (
      '{"model": "gemini/gemini-1.5-flash-8b", "max_tokens": 1000, "thread_id": "' || {thread_id:String} || '", "run_id": "' || {run_id:String} || '"}',
      {system_prompt:String}, 
      text
    ) as gemini_15flash_score
FROM tbl 
FORMAT PrettySpace
```

```bash
id   text_clip                                            gpt_4o_mini_score   gemini_15flash_score
1.  7544833   This is a project for people who like to read and    2                   2
                    
2.  7544834   I appreciate your efforts to set the facts straigh   2                   2
                    
3.  7544835   Here in Western Europe, earning $100,000 per year    1                   2
                    
4.  7544836   Haha oh man so true. This is why I&#x27;ve found i   3                   2
                    
5.  7544837   The thing is it&#x27;s gotten more attention from    1                   2
                    
```

## References

- [ClickHouse UDF Documentation](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/udf)
- [LangDB API Parameters Reference](https://github.com/langdb/ai-gateway/blob/main/udfs/src/types.rs)
- [Docker Compose Configuration](https://github.com/langdb/ai-gateway/blob/main/docker-compose.yml)
